welcome to GUI and you know browsers
also connectivity bi-weekly call for the
5th of gosh what's the month may 20 2014
the and welcome directly here as Quezada
who will be joining us with browser
endeavors and trying to figure it out
how can we do placate I give us notes
across hubs origins and also reuse like
leverage the local ironic note I think
that's the more or less description but
exactly feel free to say a few words you
see it was well summarized I can go to
digital chain which I'm not sure I guess
yeah sure so I think today if you run
ipfs Jess I care that's in your browser
that means every time you open a new tab
we spawn a new IP first node it has to
reconnect to the same peers and do all
of those things over and over again
that's true for the same origin tab so
the same site would do the same if you
do they're different origins it would be
the same furthermore if you have idea
paths of running a side by side to your
browsers that use ipfs there is no
sharing happening between those two
which also means that you might have a
data you know look like if I snow it on
a desktop and your app might be trying
to get the same data and while you may
be offline and you won't be able to
succeed to do that same across the tabs
so I think there are a lot of things we
could user to improve and that's the
works that I would be trying to do Papa
Luis help all of you here we're here to
help and suppose you yeah I'm super
excited
for that work let's move to the next one
use a research proposal oh yeah that's
me I have a sneaking suspicion that the
value of ipfs desktop lies in the menu
bar functions and this this bears into
you know discussions that we've had well
for quite some time but but definitely
over the last couple of weeks about
whether we might be justified in like
completely unbundling mu I and having
ipfs desktop basically be a tiny helper
app that gives you a native a native ish
menu with these functions and then ports
you over to web UI when you need to do
the things reducing some of the
duplication development load of making
this thing work in making web UI work in
electron beautifully and just in in the
normal browsers so my thoughts on this
is to start with just a real quick very
quick assessment my initial thoughts are
just start a discussion in the forum and
then also probably a quick Google Form I
like five questions sort of thing and
link to that IP FS weekly and then have
some forum for open commenting to see if
that pings any longer discussions with
folks which we can follow up with and
you sort of like one-on-one interviews
name calls whatever which I would then
incentivize with t-shirts and things so
so that was really I don't know I don't
have a hard and fast time for him on
this but I know it bears into quite a
few of the discussions that we've been
having on and off lately about whether
you know certain duplicating all this
work is necessarily worth it or people
like even understand like the number of
times I started accidentally running
multiple nodes and then get real
confused you know I can't be the only
one right
so so I would love anybody's thoughts on
that I will I'll get a sort of quick
probably probably just a Google Form I
can't really think of any about a better
way to do it but I get that up and
running and then see see all y'all and
see if you have any other thoughts on
comments does that sound like a good
plan anybody anybody else have any any
ideas before I proceed merrily forward
with that plan I I have a question first
of all I love the idea because I've been
feeling the same the question is do we
actually know how people are using ideas
desktop or what purpose is for serving
said might be also yeah that's gonna be
part of that it's like I I think the
crux of this is like yeah why would
anybody why would anybody use desktop
and not either and not just spin up a
daemon and use the web UI if they wanted
some sort of GUI attached to it you're
the sort of initial answer seems to be
because of the the menu bar items but
then I really just want to I really just
want to double check that there's not
some other reason that you know that
none of us have somehow thought of and
also you we should probably pitch that
line of questioning of like really
I'd also I'd also like to get into
questions like what else would you want
desktop to do if you had magical super
super powers but I also don't want to
turn it into it you know like a giant
feature request discussion or else we're
just gonna look like we're letting folks
down actually I was splitting it up
split up into those separate discussions
I think it's right yeah I want to see if
there's like a real subtle way that I
can get at the sort of like PS if you
could have anything else a desktop what
would it be I think it's probably more
the approach to do that way yeah but I
like I like your initial approach though
first asking why like with that because
I feel like if you if you ask that
question to the people that will affect
people's answers I really like that your
first question is why do you use desktop
now and then we can follow along with
what what should desktop do yeah yeah I
need to either liner I need
the line of questions in the right order
sorry I think I missed about half of
what you've said but I got the baby yes
I yeah I like your first your the price
you have already first why do you use s
top separated and followed by later
what should just stop too as well yeah
yeah yeah yeah I don't want to turn this
into a futures discussion because that's
just like it in folks this helps way too
much when effectively what we're doing
is is seeing if this activity could
enable us to turn something off does it
work yeah one thought I had though too
is is actually asking this question
inside desktop because I feel like if we
ask in our channels we're not going to
get the full audience Molly said we're
like sixty thousand desktop users or
something like that maybe so no I feel
like if we ask people if we ask people a
question and we actually shift that
question in desktop not only do we have
a little bit of a better idea of who's
using desktop
we'll reach audiences that aren't
hanging out in our forums which is
probably like audience yeah yeah I mean
I think the weekly is gonna get us a
whole lot of folks
I agree the forum is pretty
self-selected vital are we what do we
have plans I mean we could have it as a
first launch we get I was like a snack
bar on first launch the next time we but
are we are we shipping and upgrade I
don't want to ship an upgrade that just
asks people a question research after
this initial yeah see what answers we
get back from weekly but next time we
ship a desktop update yeah yeah because
I think this is kind of you know a song
if weekly turns out to be a
representative group of people and and
we'll want to tweak that by a that'll
that'll be like B what do you use
desktop for word not use desktop for
question if that starts feeling
representative I think we can get the
data we need on like 25 people
so can I saw one more idea so one things
that we've been doing at Mozilla is
templating part of the users for the new
ideas before we actually go ahead and do
it one of the things we could do is if I
know if anything is measured like how
many times people open UI or anything
like that but if we can sample some
segments of you
and instead of opening the UI just
popping the browser tab this is the
reactions that might be another way to
like you people don't complain yeah and
we do have the other thing the other
thing I do know is we've got gonna say
roughly about 50 people who have
responded to prompt within Docs to be
beta testers in general read sort of
phrase that is like being a beta tester
the docs but I see no reason why we
can't see coop that audience if we need
to as well um you bring up some very
interesting points about a/b testing and
there's there is something to be said
you know if we start moving this thing
into exclusively into web UI we could do
that just gonna leave that thought out
there all right
and I'm an monopolized enough of folks
this time agreed Raphael you would just
have t-shirts for everything your cat
would have t-shirts to just like a
closing thought here is that like
historically the way that stop started I
believe hack remembers it better but it
had like a panel which you was mainly
used for drag and drop and I feel like
the drag and drop story still remains if
someone is like using it and it's like
bounce to the web UI and files it's
probably the drag and dropping stuff and
so having a question around drag and
drop use and then just making sure that
dragon room functionality is super super
super solid in web UI which you know
it's it's easier to do that than it was
three years ago so that might be a moot
point I don't know it's fixed now thanks
to our new Raphael here present he's
already fixing stuff I'll make an ad on
that yeah and speaking of like fixes
when we fix something we make a new
release of web UI and desktop so right
now we are bundling web UI with desktop
and we are able to like ship fixes
if the stop itself if we start opening
web UI in a web browser then you get
into that tricky situation of access
controls to the API wizard which is like
not UX problem is like technical problem
with our stock but it's something to be
aware of if we start opening in a web
browser we need to figure it out how do
we handle updates do we open a specific
hash from a port or do we open web UI
ipfs io from a local gate
those are like open questions just like
raising them here easier or harder than
our credit to progress in both cases we
just swap cid in some config file and
during the build
it's either fetched and bundled or it's
just a string in URL which we open your
browser difference but just like some
additional considerations around the way
we update web UI or like have rolling
all right I think we could like put a
pin on that and continue I think next
one is the p2p booster persistence be
our address book and the PR got married
address book in proto book was March in
this year 28 release which was cool so
basically forgiving United States about
the next release obviously will be we
are now missing the cue book which I
already implemented as well and Jacob
will review it this week and also the
big key chain integration which I'm
currently working on they are the two
missing pieces
regarding the piercer and we are still
blocked on some other stuff regarding
the interoperability we'd go we would be
in the noise and Shake and also in the
in another case with sharp maybe
blocking is the release for the next
week we
you need to shake it out because
basically we are pending on PRS to get
merged in bitumen so that we can des
interrupts with Jess so that we can
after that really is the new release but
yeah we need to think we'd also grab the
FS and go a bit B and that's also while
is thinking a longer time two things
important to point about the Pearce our
persistence this is mostly related with
paper it's important so we will have in
wicked beside the persistence the
disabled by default for now for one
specific reason which is since we don't
have like Jessica fest a way of
immediate will detecting the environment
that we are running if we're running
browser or nodes basically the only data
store that we would have that it's
comparable with all of them is the
memory data store in the memory data
start its kind of useless when you want
to persist something and they start the
node in Jessica's do not be the problem
because there is already a set up with
the browser in node and we can set up
enable by default in the browser and
from the start but in which P will need
to wait for the next release before we
work on improving the lipids piconfig
which is also another of my hairs there
hopefully I will work on this work and
with that we end to also the same thing
else are the fastest and have the
configuration immediately providing it
with send defaults for the environment
that we are running which currently is
not the case this is one thing and the
other issue is the threshold parameter
that we added for the piercer
persistence so basically we want we
don't want to every single atomic change
to the piercer to be persistent because
this would not be really performance and
so avoiding trying to avoid it we added
the threshold parameter which basically
says the number of dirty peers that you
can have in the peer star before
persisting so let's say if we have the
threshold
or five we will keep a list of the of
tears that are dirty and when we reach
this threshold okay so let's now apply
to all these five years that we have and
we just persist like a batch of all the
operations instead of doing one and one
and one however this also might have
some bad consequences for the browser
and we will be recommending for browser
users the threshold of client for now
because we don't have a clear way of of
stopping the node because with the
threshold in if we are in the node.js
environment when we stopped the nodes
basically we call the persist anyway
even if we have 230 peers we will
guarantee that in stock we will persist
that data or in the in a browser
environment if basically we just close
close the browser or the tab will not
have the stop angular being called and
so we will eventually miss data so for
now we will need to have the threshold
that was recommended for browsers for
one unless will we think on other
alternatives like we I initially talked
about having an interval of time where
we just persist anyway even if we don't
achieve the threshold but then even with
that we can end up with data being lost
so I would say for us to go with the
threshold for one right now and then we
can discuss any threat on top of that
and yeah that's it for me I know if
anyone of you have comments I believe
this will be the entire like pew
persistence story will be useful for
work and that you actually will be doing
on like keeping not bootstrapping from
bootstrappers every time J's ipfs note
stars and yeah that's that's one of the
things yeah I want to eventually add but
in the next release to Liberty pay like
strategies of the peer discovery from
the beginning we can like
configure configuration that says okay
if you have n number of beers already in
the beer store you might start trying to
dial them instead of going to the
bootstrap nodes but that's a thing that
we will probably target to work in
parallel with the config improvements
because it will be like a lot of
different stuff that we'll need to endow
in the configuration can I ask one
question you mentioned about persisting
before unload I don't know what you're
persisting so it's not exactly there for
me but there's hooks that you hope you
can hook into on before clothes to do
the things that you can do synchronously
so it may not give you the a sink rate
right but you could persist local
storage or something
unless it's a huge amount of data we are
basically storing the multi others of
the beer that appears that we know and
the protocols that they are running and
this allows us to imagine you start
appear from a fresh beer and you will
discover the bootstrap beers and another
beers from those beers and then you will
keep a record of all these peers for so
that in the next time you start your
nodes you will not need to reach to them
again and you can to discover them
because you already know them you can
immediately try to connect to them if
you want and with that we can as light
over saying not keep a big load on the
bootstrap nodes and we can distinguish
which beers we want to dial from the
beginning instead of going directly to
the bootstrap nodes and regarding the
the roots basically what we do it's that
this threshold thing where we once in a
while start a batch of operations
instead of being continuously storing
everything
this is also nice because for example if
we start any atomic operation that we
had for example you can discover one
with the other of a beer and then two
seconds later we will discover another
one and you need to do two operations
you don't want to like batch all of them
as you know one
all right folks I feel it's like a
separate call when like you're actually
work I get to the point when we start
caring about persisting all the context
and I still feel like it likely will be
one of your first users of this so it
would be pretty pretty useful to the dog
food eat thank you for the update Vasco
I feel the next one is d-trix is it a
gallon
my periodic keyboard paws
block it by keyboard yes so Galle
assigned we have a mailing list and
they're gonna send weekly updates let me
know I think I might just forward those
dump those those weekly updates into the
browser's channel so everybody can
follow along if anything it's very
interesting to be able to see what these
set of activities are when you have
somebody solely focused on making a set
of changes to the address or browsers
themselves and then all the places that
they need to communicate various mailing
lists and web boards and who they need
to file issues with and where and what
the different players involved think
about the changes that's fascinating so
even this first up table and shared by
frederique is pretty cool to watch that
work will be ongoing
it's basically a six-week contract over
12 weeks so some of these frederique
foreman values work half time on this
because the nature of the of the work is
a lot of times just send a message to a
list and they're waiting for a reply and
driving a decision on a given thing not
necessarily just sitting and coding
nothing out so that was the only update
there is that we have now signed the
contracts and I officially kicked that
work off the next one is you like I just
people would love to hear probable yeah
so like just like after that after for
the guy you won one of the substrates
were was registration of your eyes and
to unblock support for ipfs and PNAS
that SSB protocols in chromium one of
concerns were those were not registered
or IIA and a Ayana and we may spend some
time just to like close that gap on the
idea first sight i reach out to secure
staccato but I feel I think he got
reached out to the dot people already
so if they would be the best if they
register like submit for registering
your eyes on their own but if we get
blocked too much we probably may be like
submitting it on our or our on our end
that's small small new ones if anyone is
interested are you talking about chill
DS no I'm talking about
URI protocol schemes so like ipfs colon
slash slash right so IP fsip NSD web dot
and SSB where some time ago white listed
in firefox but there is like a lot of
movements switching from white list to
black lists and stuff like that and now
when we want to introduce a feature
parity in chromium we hit that again by
not having those like officially
registered yet alright
local discovering brave kicked off it's
a separate that grant now I will try to
share my screen which will be
interesting because I did not spend any
time on debugging that problem we had
last time
can you see my screen see a black screen
alright never mind never mind them so
that the work on active the local
discovery in brave started the goal was
mostly to dog food our mdns
implementation with something else than
go idea fess so we got support for in
JSI PFS we ran and by the GSI PFS in
brave that brave note has access to more
powerful api's which enable us to listen
and broadcast on tcp and UDP sockets so
just work this is a dev grant to close
the gap make it possible for brave node
to announce itself on mdns and if not
try to figure it out alternative way of
local discovery in a network so if you
have
or in under airplane two people we pray
she'll be able to exchange files with
each other and that's progressing pretty
pretty nicely Ranger who's leading this
work identified problem with chromium
code base basically it's not possible to
the way chromium API exposed to a
browser extension like grabs the UDP
ports is not compatible with more than
one listener on the OS it's basically
grabbing it just for its own use and
does not support port we use and there's
like old peer patch which fix that and
so Ranger is like testing if it's
actually fix and if so porting the patch
to the latest version of chromium and
will plan to submit that patch to a
brave so that's the update more in the
following weeks and the next one is also
on my hands
unstoppable domain spear for companion
which I would share if my description
involved but long story short
unstoppable domains opened APR in a
cubes companion to add support for zeal
and crypt that crypto TLDs I I mean the
process of reviewing that but just like
i think ii ii don't know to the note see
if someone is interested in a way it's
implemented without shooting full ET
room blockchain client so long story
short it's making requests to
third-party HTTP api at in pure and
click i had some initial concerns on
that it at least should ask user for
permission before sending any
information about the browsing habits to
some third party API so if you are
interested in that discussion links to
the pr is in the notes next one is
desktop migration and upgrade bug I can
quickly introduce that so
mother reported problem with I believe
IP first desktop Oh points then not
being able to upgrade to the latest
version and Rafa was trying to reproduce
the bug but it was only like the back
was surfacing only in unsigned locally
built fashion do you have like any other
thoughts on that
so like the problem I found was that all
my attempts to reproduce the only one
that was possible was if I was the one
to build it from source so that could be
a problem for advanced users because if
they prefer to build from source so they
know what code they are building and
they are sure they have the right things
on their machines that could be a
problem for a migration path like from a
user experience point of view because
instead of a click and it's upgraded
they need to check out to the latest
release and manually build it again
which cannot which can also be no issue
since we already have advanced users
they'd like to see the code first before
they have the product bill so maybe they
would also like to see what changed
between the versions and decide if they
want to upgrade or not but nonetheless
every time we start desktop it gives a
warning to the user forcing them to
update so that could be an issue as well
I don't know if we should change that
approach just like inform the user as an
applet not required or if we should
force people to update maybe we can
discussed a bit around that because
that's a struggle point I found because
the the app really forces me to update
right kind of blocks well when I open it
for the first time you had a very good
point with the fact that like more
advanced users don't trust pre-built
packages and they want to build them on
their own and I say it's not a bug it's
a feature but the auto-update does not
because if I build something from source
I don't want it to like update to add
some binary blood and the next day so I
don't believe we actually need to we
don't have actual back here
I think the error message is pretty
clear for like someone who built from
source to understand hey I it's not
official release and also the most of
users will use the pre-built packages
especially on mac and windows which are
signs which are not arising mark so it's
just a matter of how much time do we
work in bandwidth do we want to spend in
like improving experience for those like
very technical users who probably don't
really care that much about UX of
automatic updates might like my only
concern was that the users who are using
those pre-built packages like the
concern was is there an issue and I
don't believe there is if you install
the official package of like o0 10-4 and
you click like check check for updates
you will get updated to the latest
version and that's what was like the
main concern of before molly was are
those like regular users get update and
I believe they will if if we are able to
like reproduce it with like regular
packages then we have a problem but I
don't know if we confirm that we have
this problem yeah I tried like four
different versions I asked the colleague
of mine on Moxie to also try it out on a
fresh computer yes he tried it no
problem at all for him so yeah I think
it's not reproduce yes yeah I think like
if we want to invest any time in like
improving auto-update experience that
would be moving away from using github
releases as a hosting for that and
switching to a click actually I'd be FS
trying like trying had created that
package for was it like ipfs or gateway
which is trying to fetch from ipfs and
if you don't have running node locally
it's falling back to the public gateway
that's like a separate separate
discussion I feel we are pretty great
with this this bug if anyone has any
issues with upgrading and they believe
they are on the official channel please
fill an issue that would be useful data
point but so far we're not able to
reproduce the vision issues thanks for
digging into this these these are often
really thorny and difficult to test
scenarios some conditions but I
appreciate you digging into it it's if
we can get independent third-party
verification of it I'd be worried but
it's old Molly and the thread like it's
I I don't trust anyone on our team
because especially people years and
years and years of working with desktop
software so good approach thanks for
getting a third-party to test it out
here - exactly because he reported as
similar but not really issue with
migrations and notarization and that's
like what's a good example of someone
who's in the community and like over
time installs various things and stuff
that's like three years just hanging
around
now when my co has introduced mandatory
notarization suddenly that introduces
this problem so it's always always
important to either like do a total
purge in virtual machine or or ask
someone who did not develop anything
yeah I just like on the notarization
topic I commented that we could
notarization for those binaries on the
dist ipfs our website like we have go
ipfs is just one of them there's a lot
of very various tools and people may
download them using the browser and they
will get an authorization problem on Mac
res but that needs to be addressed
upstream in the repo of each project to
produce a binary which is already
notarized and stuff old because the this
ipfs our website itself is create it's
like creating hash for each file
not just ipfs cars but also
like I believe that's Chauhan or shall
2250 yeah 56 for people who use like
scripts and other tools for automated
updates package manager maintain errors
so we if we add notarization for my
class we need to do that in the upstream
of the project not in the least
i PFS our webs the next one is not
browser but mobile but i did not already
hopped in there and drop this repo down
not necessarily a browser but it kind of
interesting that it's somebody else's
playing around with different ways to be
able to get a full node running on on
android just thought it'd be interesting
note to drop here i the next one after
that
Oh directory index GUI you skip that one
yeah when I saw like following the PR
but actually hadn't seen what the
directory index look like in those
changes yes
that was sort of like a first sort of a
triage bash at it I have a PR open right
now that makes it responsive on pretty
much any standard smartphone um also I'm
not quite sure what the sort of like
legacy of that of that code is but
there's like just a bunch of extraneous
CSS I've I've been off and on the last
couple of days it's like totally
refactoring it so hopefully that's
happen to review right now there is some
objection to the accessible teal color
that we introduced in the latest version
of my piece CSS on aesthetic grounds and
that may be
blocking change on this so I'll continue
working on that slide no your screen is
still black you're gonna have to restart
dude maybe if I don't turn out if I
don't jinx it it will work but no
then the only thing that's blocked there
is the alley color change though right
well I mean the colors the color changes
legit but it's not walking the response
and changes or anything like that
mmm no so so if this if this turns it
into a larger discussion we may just
have to release that with the
inaccessible colors what was it is it a
regression was it inaccessible before
and now we're trying to make it well it
was completely unbranded before is the
thing the trouble is a bit we've been
shipping everything everything with the
old teal we've been shipping for quite
some time and just doesn't just just
passed away
it does it does mute out like it does
wash out the color palette a little bit
and you know if you're not used to
seeing it it it's something that you may
notice I would I personally would
suggest that we that we turn this into
sort of a separate discussion you know
that we that we leave the muted color
because that's accessible the greatest
number of people and actually go down a
deeper discussion in a future revision
of ipfs CSS if that is not an acceptable
solution and we'll have to figure
something else out yeah it would be
worth discussing like it especially
because the new teal is so important to
so many people for being reflective of
what ipfs is and that's not ideal it's
not the aqua it's not the it's not the
ball it's it's the ax and you can see it
you can see it in the latest desktop
release it's just just a little bit less
saturated than before we have not you
know received a huge user back flasher
or anything but um is there a way to to
remove the color like to just not use
those accents can we are there
mitigations that would have even a more
substantial
on the overall feel of the design and
would require some pretty that that it
beat that would be a fair work yeah I
guess I'm just trying to feel like like
how can we how can we move it forward
without big block like be having having
them you know people that are in for a
long time we're like hard stop on that
color like okay get it understand I have
not been directed to specifically
regress desktop as a result of the new
color um but I have been told the new
color in its instantiation of directory
index.html is unacceptable so you can
take this yeah we can take this offline
as to whether or not you know how we
work around that okay yeah it might just
be that we need to come up with a
different color or less color version
yeah and if we do if we do that in
desktop that will be a substantial
amount of work just look for the context
historically we just have a black bar at
the top of the page and I believe that's
still the case in JSI PFS like we
updated their directory listing in goa
cafes but jessica is still using the old
one like embedded GAAP was not in brave
it's not it's not the the issue is not
the bar the top the page the issue is
that the excessive when we when we
pushed the the saturated teal to ipfs
CSS one of the things in this round of
changes to director index.html was to
bring the colors in line with ipfs CSS
which they never were so and the
reviewer objects to you the
dissatisfaction of directory index.html
I have been specifically directed to
regress desktop or web UI however all
right
probably we should add link to that PR
notes and direct everyone to take a look
and probably unblock it I think okay not
browser but mobile maybe yeah yeah so
this was just this is a project that
somebody just dropped in the channel for
the the mobile design guidelines work
which I am not familiar with what this
run Linux on Android solution is that
they were using I realize like I
wouldn't lift it up and I was it go yeah
I am I'm actually following along in
that reddit and that Twitter account
difficult for me to imagine that it's
super performance but as far as like a
fast path for getting a form that
running kind of kind of interesting heck
they were maybe worth looking at the
other item there i and on on the weekend
push some nice changes to the browser
sandbox so worth pulling and rebuilding
that taking you know
Betty having a version of like person
from the gun yes I actually pointed this
person two birdies work and birdie
actually recently moved their migration
in their gum about stuff into the AFS or
so it's kind of officially now and then
I'm kind of curious
we've talked a little bit like what what
next steps there might be like if we
actually like I think would be great to
be able to just release a ipfs node an
official IP this node for mobile for
people that want to run it that gives
people the choice I'll be able to do
that and treat it as a as a destroy the
same way as they release that some way
that we do for you know the way that we
treat tear when it whistles for desktop
in the way that we treat our Tier one
languages that we support I think it's
my name upon the little trickier because
when mobile you want something like a
library that you can embed versus binary
well it depends on your use case so I
feel like if we want if we want somebody
just wants to run a full know that
people can connect to a local host like
opera you can configure opera to point
to a local gateway for example at least
on you know you can run a server brady
did it so I think we have to we have to
have a library from a from developer and
builder inclusion pathway but also just
having a ipfs noted that people can run
maybe that he did awesome and you know a
minor you know functionality all I do
either a share handler and things like
that that might be nice innovations or
at least not lot not lose your data some
highlights maybe there have been some
releases I think I missed some of them
but there's a new it's ipfs release
which is a tiny library for detecting if
is this URL
ipfs resource
actually it's part of who goes endeavor
to remove use of global of nodes global
such as like buffer and things like that
but it may be useful to know for people
who stumble upon that because some build
some like Banderas stopped stopped
injecting those node Global's so it may
be useful to switch to the latest
version they're saying new ipfs provider
version which is a very small library
for adding ipfs to your application in a
way that has like a progressive fallback
so it tries to find the best node
available it's very crude library but it
works so it tries to is the window ipfs
object is the HTTP api on localhost
maybe it will try some remote HTTP api
is hosted by your app and then if
everything fails it will spawn and by
the GSI DFS and use that as a fallback
it's a project inspired by Arkadiy they
had similar use like need for internet
archives experimentation with the web
they I believe they were running their
own notes and they wanted to like try
HTTP API first and then if that it's
down or something fall back to em by the
J's ipfs and also I believe another user
of this library is didly didly wiki
plugin for writing wikis on ipfs so I
believe that's going way back yeah I
mean it's a written each one but if
someone use that they will immediately
know what I'm talking about so it one of
requests were to like stop pounding J's
idea first abandoning HTTP client and
lazy load them so this new release does
that
and I believe that plug-in already
switched to ideas provider so they no
longer need to run like write their own
code for doing that and this was like
some time ago but it was it happened
since we had this call last time ipfs
web UI shipped with peer screen updates
by Raphael so just shout out that it's
pretty cool I did not found a single
person who did not like it so it's a
good signal that is actually in line
also what I wanna do is a shared node
stuff I liked I had I think I'm going to
interject when you were talking about
mdns for didn't get a chance
yeah I was I am NOT I'm not sure if had
it changed or not but it used to be that
I TFS used a direct mdns for broadcast
and discovery while there is a dns SD
standard and I think there were some
discussions for switching to the
standard of those reasons to use a
standard other than he'd been a standard
actually on many routers pure and DNS is
banned and DNS SD is not because that's
what printers and other things used so I
was wondering if I could has actually
switched to it or not and if not it
might be worth thinking about it now
that prairies actively developing this
stuff oh yeah yeah that's that's exactly
why part of the reasons behind this def
grant the context here is a co-op ifs is
still using the old thing which is not
the standard you've dimension however
the J's ipfs is supporting both so JSI
TFS like mdns module for JS ipfs is able
to talk to the go i TFS using the old
thing but at the same time it's also
like listening and broadcasting
announcing itself on the new standard
that we have specs in the p2p specs repo
so
jsap FS which is embedded in brave
using both and we want to make each work
one to use this proper standard and so
to be able to talk with go ipfs or at
least right now it's able to discover go
FS would be cool to announce itself to
go FS anyway
and part of the the results of this this
dev grant is to sort of like a battle
test find any issues around this new
spec before we implement in go ipfs what
is the spec you're referring to on which
just look at the spec for mdns which is
not mdns one secondly TN SSD from what I
remember it was just a tiny change it
was I think the naming of the services
needed underscores or whatever and I
kept as used dots which that was
incompatible yeah the link to the spec
so J CFS is implementing this new spec
but we are still and this the only
implementation so if we need to change
anything we will change it and then go
to go FS team and switch there but we'd
probably there will be one release when
we support both also but yeah right guys
do we have any ad hoc topics four
minutes left one to salt
you bought yourselves about three
minutes of free time so see you next
week some of you see sooner than that
but see you in two weeks two weeks see
no sharing
don't even know how how often this call
happens
bye-bye